README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/153162406-bf8fd16f-aa98-4604-b87b-e13ab4baf604.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">
  Medusa Next.js Starter
</h1>

<p align="center">
Medusa is an open-source headless commerce engine that enables developers to create amazing digital commerce experiences.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

> **Prerequisites**: To use the starter you should have a Medusa server running locally on port 9000. Check out [medusa-starter-default](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-default) for a quick setup.

# Overview

![next-starter](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45367945/182571697-a68c502f-5844-4eea-8735-7683f775ac8b.png)

The Medusa Next.js Starter is built with:

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Medusa](https://medusajs.com/)

# Quickstart

## Deploy in 5 minutes

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa)

## Setting up the environment variables

Navigate into your projects directory and get your enviroment variables ready:

```shell
cd nextjs-starter-medusa/
mv .env.template .env.local
```

### Install dependencies

Use Yarn to install all dependencies.

```shell
yarn
```

### Start developing

You are now ready to start up your project.

```shell
yarn dev
```

### Open the code and start customizing

Your site is now running at http://localhost:8000!

Edit `/pages/index.tsx` to see your site update in real-time!

# Payment integrations

By default this starter supports the following payment integrations

- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/)
- [Paypal](https://www.paypal.com/)

To enable the integrations you need to add the following to your `.env.local` file:

```shell
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY=<your-stripe-public-key>
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=<your-paypal-client-id>
```

You will also need to setup the integrations in your Medusa server. See the [Medusa documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com) for more information on how to configure [Stripe](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/stripe) and [PayPal](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/paypal) in your Medusa project.

# Search integration

This starter is configured to support using the `medusa-search-meilisearch` plugin out of the box. To enable search you will need to enable the feature flag in `./store-config.json`, which you do by changing the config to this:

```json
{
  "features": {
    "search": true
  }
}
```

Before you can search you will need to install the plugin in your Medusa server, for a written guide on how to do this – [see our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/meilisearch).

The search components in this starter are developed with Algolia's `react-instant-search-hooks-web` library which should make it possible for you to seemlesly change your search provider to Algoli instead of MeiliSearch.

To do this you will need to add `algoliasearch` to the project, by running

```shell
yarn add algoliasearch
```

After this you will need to switch the current MeiliSearch `SearchClient` out with a Alogolia client. To do this update `@lib/search-client`.

```ts
import algoliasearch from "algoliasearch/lite"

const appId = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID || "test_app_id" // You should add this to your environment variables

const apiKey = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY || "test_key"

export const searchClient = algoliasearch(appId, apiKey)

export const SEARCH_INDEX_NAME =
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_INDEX_NAME || "products"
```

After this you will need to set up Algolia with your Medusa server, and then you should be good to go. For a more thorough walkthrough of using Algolia with Medusa – [see our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/algolia), and the [documentation for using `react-instantsearch-hooks-web`](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/getting-started/react-hooks/).

# Resources

## Learn more about Medusa

- [Website](https://www.medusajs.com/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/medusajs)
- [Documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/)

## Learn more about Next.js

- [Website](https://nextjs.org/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/next.js)
- [Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)

Commit message:

[NO-JIRA] adds ability to have different environments

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/153162406-bf8fd16f-aa98-4604-b87b-e13ab4baf604.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">
  Medusa Next.js Starter
</h1>

<p align="center">
Medusa is an open-source headless commerce engine that enables developers to create amazing digital commerce experiences.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

> **Prerequisites**: To use the starter you should have a Medusa server running locally on port 9000. Check out [medusa-starter-default](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-default) for a quick setup.

# Overview

![next-starter](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45367945/182571697-a68c502f-5844-4eea-8735-7683f775ac8b.png)

The Medusa Next.js Starter is built with:

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Medusa](https://medusajs.com/)

# Quickstart

## Deploy in 5 minutes

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa)

## Setting up the environment variables

Before running the application, local environment variables need to be set by creating `.env.local` file in root folder. This file needs to have all variables like any other `.env.[mode]` file.

### Install dependencies

Use Yarn to install all dependencies.

```shell
yarn
```

### Start developing

You are now ready to start up your project.

```shell
yarn dev
```

### Open the code and start customizing

Your site is now running at http://localhost:8000!

Edit `/pages/index.tsx` to see your site update in real-time!

# Payment integrations

By default this starter supports the following payment integrations

- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/)
- [Paypal](https://www.paypal.com/)

To enable the integrations you need to add the following to your `.env.local` file:

```shell
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY=<your-stripe-public-key>
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=<your-paypal-client-id>
```

You will also need to setup the integrations in your Medusa server. See the [Medusa documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com) for more information on how to configure [Stripe](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/stripe) and [PayPal](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/paypal) in your Medusa project.

# Search integration

This starter is configured to support using the `medusa-search-meilisearch` plugin out of the box. To enable search you will need to enable the feature flag in `./store-config.json`, which you do by changing the config to this:

```json
{
  "features": {
    "search": true
  }
}
```

Before you can search you will need to install the plugin in your Medusa server, for a written guide on how to do this – [see our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/meilisearch).

The search components in this starter are developed with Algolia's `react-instant-search-hooks-web` library which should make it possible for you to seemlesly change your search provider to Algoli instead of MeiliSearch.

To do this you will need to add `algoliasearch` to the project, by running

```shell
yarn add algoliasearch
```

After this you will need to switch the current MeiliSearch `SearchClient` out with a Alogolia client. To do this update `@lib/search-client`.

```ts
import algoliasearch from "algoliasearch/lite"

const appId = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID || "test_app_id" // You should add this to your environment variables

const apiKey = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY || "test_key"

export const searchClient = algoliasearch(appId, apiKey)

export const SEARCH_INDEX_NAME =
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_INDEX_NAME || "products"
```

After this you will need to set up Algolia with your Medusa server, and then you should be good to go. For a more thorough walkthrough of using Algolia with Medusa – [see our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/add-plugins/algolia), and the [documentation for using `react-instantsearch-hooks-web`](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/getting-started/react-hooks/).

# Resources

## Learn more about Medusa

- [Website](https://www.medusajs.com/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/medusajs)
- [Documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/)

## Learn more about Next.js

- [Website](https://nextjs.org/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/next.js)
- [Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
